In this lecture, you'll learn about Cisco's multi-chassis etherchannel options of StackWise, vPC and
VSS.
Matching etherchannel settings have to be configured on the switches on both sides of the link.
You know that already.
You can configure separate port channels from a switch to redundant upstream switches like you see in
the diagram here,
I've got my access layer Access3 switch and it has got a port channel with bundled links going up to
CD1 and it's got another separate port channel with other physical interfaces that are bundled in a port
channel going up to CD2. The problem with
this is that spanning-tree would see those separate port channels as two separate interfaces and it will block
one path if a loop is formed like it is here.
So in our example,
CD1 is the root bridge.
So the port channel from Access3 to that is going to be Forwarding.
But the port channel going up to CD2, would form a potential loop. So spanning-tree is going to
block that port channel.
So I've got four physical interfaces configured as uplinks here, but only two of them are Forwarding,
so I'm only getting half of my possible bandwidth.
So that brings us back to the same problem of only using half of our available physical bandwidth
again. We configured that same topology in the lab in the last lecture.
So things were better after we configured etherchannel.
This is how it was before we did it.
So again, CD1 is the root bridge and you see from Access3, it's got those four physical uplinks,
but only one of them was forwarding traffic, which was the interface connected to CD1 and exactly
the same on Access4 as well.
So four physical ports, only one of them forwarding traffic. After we configured etherchannel,
we have two out of the four forwarding traffic now rather than one.
So it's better.
And actually I've still got the lab running, so let's go on there and just verify that.
So I'll go on to Access3 and do a show etherchannel summary.
And you can see that I've got my two port channels, one is going up to the first core distribution
layer switch. The second one is going up to the second. They're both up.
Then I do a show spanning-tree vlan 10, which is a VLAN that my PCs are in.
I can see that out of those 2 port channels,
one of them is forwarding traffic.
This is the port channel connected to the root bridge and the other one is blocking because it's forming
a potential loop.
So it's still not perfect.
If we go back to the slides, there is a way that we can get this configured so that we are actually
forwarding on all of our physically connected uplinks.
And the way that we do that is with Multi-chassis EtherChannel.
So some switches will support that. When we configure it, the switch supports a shared etherchannel
from different switches.
So you see the diagram I've got here now. If I go back one slide, a couple of slides,
normally, we would have 2 separate port channels, one going up to CD1 and another one going up to
CD2. When those core distribution layer switches support multi-chassis etherchannel though, I can do a single port channel
which goes to both of them.
Now, again, the switches must be configured with matching settings.
When you configure etherchannel, you need matching settings on both sides of the links. So here,
Access3 has got a port channel going upstream and switches
CD1 and CD2 have got a shared port channel going downstream. So CD1 and CD2 need to be
advanced level switches that support talking to each other and having a shared port channel going downstream.
So that is supported on some models of Cisco switch.
When you do configure this, spanning-tree is still enabled, but it only sees a single logical interface
on both sides. It sees a port channel going upstream from Access3 and it sees a single port channel
going downstream from CD1 and shared with CD2.
So it sees that as just a single link.
So there's no loop there.
Spanning-tree does not block any of the ports.
We have all of them forwarding.
We get the full use of all of our physical bandwidth, supports full load balancing and redundancy across
all the interfaces.
If any of the interfaces goes down, it will fail over to another available interface.
So the technologies that Cisco have available that support this are StackWise, VSS and vPC.
Now, a single switch is not going to support all of these. Different platforms of switches, support
different options.
And if a switch does support one, it will only be one. So the switch will either support StackWise or
it will support VSS or it will support vPC, not two or three at the same time.
And this is only on the higher end switches.
If you've got one of Cisco's lower end switches, then this is not going to be supported.
So which option is supported on which family of switches? Well, StackWise is on Catalyst switch platforms,
including the
Catalyst 3750,
3850 and
9000.
Because Cisco comes out with new models of switches very regularly
and when we do come out with a new model of switch, it's likely to support one of these three options.
So this will be updated over time.
If you have a look at the picture here, this is a stack of switches that are being configured with StackWise.
StackWise uses special proprietary cables at the back of these switches.
When you do configure a StackWise stack, the separate physical switches all operate as if they are
one switch and they are configured as if they're one switch as well.
That is similar to the next option, which is VSS, the Virtual Switching System. That's supported on
the Catalyst 4500 and 6500 families.
And the last option is one of its own,
a little bit different is vPC, Virtual Port Channel. That is supported on the Nexus switches.
And rather than stacking the switches together and then being managed as if it's a single switch, when you
use this on the Nexus, they're still configured as two separate switches, but you do a matching configuration
on them and that allows for a shared port channel from those switches.
OK, so those are the MCE options. At the CCNA exam level,
Cisco expects you to know a broad overview of them, but they don't expect you to know how to configure
these. If you go on to CCNP level or one of the other CCNA tracks like Data Center, you'll learn
then how to configure and monitor these technologies.